h2(smaller). Published papers

h3(article-title). "Working with Substance: Actor-Network Theory and the Modal Weight of the Material":http://scholar.lib.vt.edu/ejournals/SPT/v12n1/mcgrail.html

Examination of industrial engineers' use of physical models in the design process.

Examples from prototyping and materials testing work are used to crticise strongly 'relational' interpretations of actor-network theory. An overly enthusiastic focus on the relational/emergent aspects of objects in ANT seems committed to defining them _completely_ by their external inputs (or, in more contrived/advanced formulations, attempts to frame the distinction between internal and external as an outcome of the investigatory process itself).

This fails to account for the capacity of objects and materials to operate 'on their own terms' - to suprise, fail, resist applications, and generally bound what is possible.

For people who'd rather read about possible-worlds theory and Heidegger than just try hitting a rock against a bottle, further explanation is provided.

h3(article-title). "Risky Maps for Contested Territories":http://direct.bl.uk/bld/PlaceOrder.do?UIN=183066740&ETOC=RN

Review essay triggered by the publication of Latour's _"Reassembling the social":http://www.amazon.com/Reassembling-Social-Introduction-Actor-Network-Theory-Management/dp/0199256047_.

Focuses criticism on Latour's atempts at avoiding (some narrowly defined version of) explanation. Descriptive accounts of the sort Latour advocates for remain explanatory in his sense - the inclusion of entities ultimately being a judgment on their causal relevance to the state or event under description. However, the types of explanations that Latour is rallying against remain problematic, particularly in the social sciences.

Rich, valid accounts should operate more like maps - completely empirical, but drawn at a carefully contrived grain appropriate to their purpose.

h3(article-title). "Review: Technology and social power":http://the.sagepub.com/content/101/1/130, "Thesis 11":http://the.sagepub.com/ " 101, 1-2

Review of "Technology of social power":http://www.palgrave.com/products/title.aspx?PID=270463. I can't remember what I said, because it's behind a pay-wall. (US$25.00 for one day - bargain.)

Can't have been too bad, because they pulled a quote for the jacket blurb.

h2(smaller). Other things

h3(article-title). "Journalflood":http://journalflood.blogspot.com/

Short lived, long defunct blog that attempted to provide a synopsis for every peer reviewed article from every issue of every decent or novel english-language social science journal in the world. Possibly a bit ambitious for a first blog.

